      ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE POLICY FOR SECTION 313 OF
Il lE EMERGENCY PLANNING COf\1MUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW ACT ( 1986)
                                  AND
     SECTIOr<J 6607 OF THE POLLUTION PREVENTION ACT ( 1990)
                            [AMENDED]

                       /\mended 1996. 1997. and 200 l


                             April 12, 200 I




        This policy has been updated in accordance with the
       2016 Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment Rule .
                          February 24, 2017
.'.




                     maoac:mmNT RllSPONSB POLICY

                       70R SZCTIOH 313 or '1'BJI
      EMBRG2NCY PLAHMIHG J..NI> COXMUWITY RIGBT•TO-KNOW ACT (198&)
                                     And
                         S!:C'rIOH &607 OV 'l'D
                TBll POLLO'r1IOH PR.BVBH'l'IOH ACT ( 19 90)




                             Iaaued l)y the
                  Office cit compliance Noni torinq
                                 ot the
      Office of Preventio·n, P••tioi4•• and 'l'oxio Subatanc••


           United Stat•• 11:nviro1111ental Protection Aqency


                           ;~uqust   l.O, 1992
                               TABLB 07 CONTZN'l'I



                                                                          PACJB


IN'l'RODOCTIOll •• • •• , • . •.•.•.• • • .•.• , •••• • • •. • , , . l


LBVBLS OP ACTION•..• • • .•••..••. • , • , . . .. . .... . • 2
   No Action . ..... .. . ...... . ... . . .. .. .. ......... 2
   Notices o! Noncomplianca . ..• .• ...•••. . •• . . •. 3
   Civil Administrative Complaints •..••••••..•. 4
   civil J udicial R~ !erra ls ••• •. ... .•••. .•• . ••. 7
   Criminal Sanctions . .•••.•. ••. . . , • ••.••• . .• •. 7

ABBBSSIHCJ A CIVIL ADXIHISTRATIVI PIMALTY • . •• • . 7
   summary of the Penalty Policy Matrix., , .•••. 7
   Extent L.svels .. . ~··· ··· ·· ·········· ······· ··9
   Penalty Matrix •. .....• . . . •••• . •.••..••.. , .• 11
   Circumstance IAvals •.•.• .••••• • • •• ••••• •• •. 11
   Multiple Violations •.• . •.•. •• .•.• . , . • , ••• • • 13
   Per Day Assessments • .•. • .•• . . .•• • . •. •.•.••• 13
   Per Day Penalty Formula •. ..•. ••.. . ..••••• .• 13
   Caps on Penalties .. . •• . • • • • .•• . . • .••••.. . . . 14


ADJtJSTXENT JAC'?ORB ••••••• • •••••••• •• • •••• • •• • l 4

   Voluntary Disclosure.••• .• , ••.•.• . •. •.•.• .. 14
   History ot Pri or Violationa • • . •.•••• • .. . ... 16
   Oelistad Chemicals .• . •.•.•. .•..• • , •. . .....• 17
   Attitude . ... • ..... .. .... .. ...... . ..... ... . . l8
   Other Factors As Justice May Rcquire •• . . ••. 18
   Settleme nt with Conditions • ••.•••••.•••.••. 19
   Ability t o Pay ••.•... .• . • .• ••. . .• . •...•. . • . 19

SB'l"l'Lmll'! • •• • .• . ••• • ••• .• .• . , •• •. , . . . . .. , ••••. 2 ·0


AMBl'fDJCBN'l'   tor Repo•rtinq Year 199 1. •• ••••• • . . . 21
                               INTROl)O'CTION
      on December 2, 1988·, the u. s. Environmental Protection
A<1ency (EPA) issued an E:ntorce ment Response Policy for addressinq
v~olation• of -Section 31.3 of the Emergency Planning and community
Right-to-Know Act. sinc:e that time, EPA has identified
opP.ortun~ties tor refining and addinq.cla~ity to that policy.
This revised enforcement; response policy incorporates three years
of enforcement experienc:e with Section 313 of the Etnergency
Planning and Community lH<;ht•to-Know Act.
      This policy ia iu11diat1ly aPRlical>lt t.nd yill bt u1td to
c1leul1t1 p1n1lti11 f,oi: all administratiyt 12tion1 conqtrninq
!PCM Section 313 i11:ytdl after tht datt o1 ihi1 policy,
r1q1 rdlt11 of tbt da~t of tht violation.
     The Emergency Plann.ing and Community Right-to-Know Act,
(EPCRA), also known as 'I''itle III of the supertund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act ot l ,986, contains provisions tor reporting
both accidental and nona.ccidental releases ot certain toxic
oherdcals. Section 313 (§313) of EPCRA requires certain
manufacturers, processo:r·s, and users of over JOO designated toxie
chemicals to r·eport annu1a11y on emissions ot those chemicals to
the air, water and land. The Pollution Prevention Act ( PPA) of
1990 reqUire• additional, data and information to be included
annually on Form R repo:r·ts beginninq in the 1991 reporting year,
tor reports which are dti10 on July l, 1992. 'rh••• reports must be
sent to the u. s. Enviroru:mental Protection Agency (EPA) and to
designated state aqenciets. Th• first reporting yoar waa 1987,
and reports were due by July l, 19.8 8, and annually by July l
thareafter. The U.S. E~'A is responsible for careying out and
enforcing the requiremer.1ts o.f §313 of EPCRA and th• PPA and any
rules promulgated pursua1nt to EPCRA and the PPA.
     Section 325(c) ot t;he law authorizes the Administrator of
the EPA to assess civil administrative penalties tor violations
of §313. A.ny per•on (o\lmer or operator of a facility, other than
a government entity) whc• violates any requirement ot f 313 is
liable for a civil ad:mir1istrative penalty in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 for each violation~ Each day a violation
continues may conetitutt1 a separate violation. The Administrator
may asse•• th• civil per1alty by administrative order or may brin9
an act·ion to •••••• and collect the. penalty in the U.S. District
Court tor the diatrict ln which the person fro~ whom tho penalty
is souqht. reside• or in wh i ch such person•s principal place ot
business is located.
       The purpose of thin Enforcement Response Policy ia to .ansure
that entorcement actiom1 for viola.t ions ot EPCRA §313 and the PPA
ara arrived at i n a tai1~, uniform and consistent manner; that th.a
en!·o rcement response is .a ppropriate for th• violation committed;
and that person• will b•t deterred from committing EPCllA §313
violations and the PPA.



                          ,.
                                    2

     For purposes of this document, "EPCRA," "§JlJ" and EPCRA
"EPCRA §313• should be understood to include the requirements of
the Pollution Prevention Act.

                         LBVZL8 OP ACTIOJI

     Enforcement alterna·t ives include: (a) no action: (b)
notices of noncompliance; (c) oivil administrative penalties (d)
civil judicial referrals, and (e) criminal action under 18 u.s.
Code 1001.
     EPA reserves the ric;ht to issue a Civil Admini strative
Penalty !or any violatio1n not specifically identified under the
Notice ot Noncompliance or Administrative Civil Penalty section.

alO AC'l'IOB

      Reyisions to Form R reports
     Generally, an entor<::ement action will not be taken regarding
voluntary changes to coric-ectly reported data in Form R reports.
Changes to Form R reporti1 are: revisions to original reports
which reflect only improved or new information and/or improved or
new procedures which werca not available when the tacility was
completinq its original submission. Facilities submitting
revisions should maintai11 records to document that th•
intormation used to calculate the revised estimate is new and was
not avai lable at the timca the first estimate Was mad1.   A
facility which submits a revision to a Form R report which does
not meet this description ot a chanqe or otherwise call• into
question the basis tor the initial data reported o~ the oriqinal
Form R report will be sul:>ject to an enforcement action.

      Discussion
     Each Fora R r eport l~ provide estimated release•: it is
not accepta):)le to aubmit Form R reports with ~ estimate(s) of
release•. Such reports 'iill be considered incomplete reports and       1
subject to an enforcemen1:: action as described below. An estimate      1
ot "zero" ia acceptable :lt 1•zero" is .a reasonable estimato of a    · !
tacility•s release• based on readily available information, i.e.,
monitorinq data or emisa:lon estimates .
     Every Form R report submitted after July l tor a chem ical
not previously submitted is not a revision, but a failure to
report in a timely manner.
                                    3

     Facilities considerinq whether to submit a revision should
rater to th• s,pte~er 26, 1991 Federal Register policy notice
which explain. tor what circumstances a facility should submit a
revision and th• correct format !or su.bmittinq a revision.
Additionally, the notic~ explains the purpose ot EPA'• policy ot
delayin9 data entry ot i!lll revisions received attar November JOth
of the year the oriqinal report was due until attar the Toxic
Release Inventory (TRI) database can be made available to th•
public. Revision• su.bmitted attar November 30th will be
processed and made available to th• public in updated versions ot
the TRI database. The l~PA cannot accept and procesa raviaions to
the TRI databaae on a C<)ntinuinq basia without significantly
delayinq the public avajLlability of the data. Follovinq on the
Septem.ber 26, 1991 Fedel~ Register policy not i ce, this ERP
adopts the November 30th date to determine the gravity ot
voluntarily disclosed data quality violations.

»OTIC38 01' HOMCOKPLIAHCll (NOif)

Stlmmarv   ot Cireumstanc911 Generally Warranting an NON
o    Form R reports which are incorrectly assembled; tor
     example, failure to include all paqes tor each Form R
     or reportin9 more than one chemical per Form R.
o    Form R reports which contain missin9 or invalid facility or
     chemical identitica1tion information: tor example, the
     CAS number reported does not match the chemical name
     reported.
o    Submission of tJlJ and Pollution Prevention Act data on an
     invalid form.
o    Incomplete Reportir:1q, 1. e., reports which. contain blanks
     where an answer is required.
o    Magnetic media submissions which cannot be proc•••od.
o    The aubmisaion of & Form R report with trade secrets without
     a aanitiz•d v•rsio~1, or the submis•ion of the sanitized
     voraion of th• For11t R report without th• trade ••crat
     intonaation.
o     Form R report• which are sent to an incorrect addreaa.
      aona   An incorrect address is any addreaa other than
      that of th• tJ. s. EllA Administrator'• oft ic•, or other
      than the addr••• l l.sted in th• §313 regulation or on
      the Form R. Form 1'l reports not received by EPA due to
      an incorrect addres1s and/or packaqin9 are not th•
                                     4

     responaibility of EPA and are su.bject to a civil
     ad.mini&tt-•tive- penalty tor ''failure to report in a timely
     manner• violation.
     NO'rllr The Agency re:s erv.e s the right to assess a civil
     Administrative Colllp,l aint for certain data quality
     errors; s ee page five !or a definition o.t these types
     ot errors. Generally, these are errors which cannot be
     detected during the data entry process.
     Discussion
     A Notice of Noncompliance (NON) is the appropriate response
for carta in errors on Fo1rm R reports detected by the Agency.
Generall y , these are errc:>rs which prevent the informa.tion on the
Form R from being entered into EPA's database. Tha NON will state
that correctio.n a must be made within a specified time (JO days
from receipt of the NON} .. Failure to correct any error tor which
a NON is issued may be the basis for issuance of a civil
Administrative complaint ..
     The decision ta iss.ue NONs for the submission of a Form R
report witn a trade sec rnt claim without a sanitized version, or
ot the sanitized version without the trade secret information, is
being treated the same an a Form R report with errors . This is a
violation of EPCRA §313 as well as the trade secret requirements
of EPCRA.

CIVIL ADHINIBTRA'l'IVB COMnUIN'l'8
       A Ci vil Adlllinistratlve Complaint will be 1• the appropriate
response for: failure tc> report in a timely manner: data quality
errors; failure to respond to a NON; repeated violations; failure
to suppl.y notification and incompl-ete or inaccurate supplier
noti.f ication; and tailurn to maintain records and failure to
1!1.aintain records according to the standard in the regulation.
Definitions:
Failure tg Report. in a Tilmely Manner This violation includes the
failure t o r e port in a t:lmely manner to oithe r EPA or to . th•
state for aach chemical ''n the list. There are two diatinct
oategori•• tor thi• violation. A circumstance lfiW•l on• penalty
will be asa••••d aqainst a cateq.o ry I viola·t icn. A "p•r day..
form,yl4 i s used to detar?nine cateqory II penaltie•; ••• this per
day formula on paqe 13.
0     category I: · rorm R reports tha·t ara submitted one year or
    . mor.e after the J ·uly l due date.
0    Cat•gory II:     Form R repoxts that are submitted attar the
     July l due date but be tore. July l ot· the followinq year.
                                 5


      EPCRA §313 · Subpart (a) requires Form R reports to be
submitted annually on or before J uly l and to contain data
estimating releases during the preceding calendar year.
Facilities whi ch submit Form R reports after the July 1 deadline
hav e fa iled to comply with this annual reporting requirement and
have defeated the purpose of EPCRA §313, which is to make this
toxi c rel ease data available to states and the public annually
and in a timely manner.

Data Qua l ity Err ors: Data Quality Errors are errors which cause
erroneous data to be submitted to EPA and states . Generally,
these are errors which are not readily detected during EPA's data
entry process . 1 Below are the range of actions which constitute
dat a quality errors; generally, these are a result of a failure
to comply with t he explicit requirement s of EPCRA §313:

o    Failure to calculate or provide reasonable estimates of
     releases or off-site trans f ers .
o    Failure to identify all appropriate categories of chemical
     use, resulting in error(s) in estimates of release or off­
     site transfers .

o    Failure to identify for each wastestream the waste
     treatment or disposal methods employed, and an estimate of
     the treatment effici~ncy typically achieved by such methods,
     for that wastestream .
o    Failure to use all r ·e acHly available information necessary
     to calculate as . accu~ately as possible , releases or off-site
     transfers .
o    Failure to provide t'.he annual quantity of the toxic chemical
     which entered each e:nv ironmental medium .
o    Failure to provide the annual quantity of the toxic chemical
     transferred off-site .
o    Fail ure to provide information required by §6607 of the
     Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 and by any regulations
     promulgated under §6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act of
     199 0 .


     1EPA's program office may issue Notices of .Technical Error
(NOTEs) for certain data quality errors which are detected during
the data entry process.
                                  6

o      Under the requiremErnts ot §6607 of the Pollution Prevention
       Act ot 1990, claiml.nq past or current year source
       reduction· o-r recycling activities which are not in tact
       implemented by the facility. This does not apply to
       activities which thLe facility may estimate for future.
       years.

o      A facility's Form ~~ reporting demonstrates a pattorn ot
       similar errors or c1missions as manifested by the issuance by
       EPA ot NONs tor twc• or more reporting years tor the same or
       similar errors or 01missions.
HOTll: It an error is ma.d e in determining a facility 1 s toxic
chemical threshold which. results in the tacility erroneously
concluding that a Form R. report tor that chemical is not
required, this is not a data quality error, but .a "failure to
report in a timely manner" violation,

Failure .to resp9nd to anJiQ.t! When a facility receives a Notice
ot Noncompliance (NON) and fails to comply with the Notice ot ·
No.n complianee, i. e, tails to correct thca information EPA requests
to be corrected in the NON by th• time period specified in th•
NON, t .h e violation is "failure to respond to an NO~." Included
here is the failure to also provide the st.a te with correctad
information requested in the NON within JO days ot r aceivinq the
NON.

Repeated violation    This category ot vio·lation 2n.ll'. applies to
violations which would generally warrant an NON for the first
time. A repeated violation is any subsequent' violation which is
identical o:r very similar to a prior violation tor which an NON
was issued. S.eparate penalty cal.eulation procedurea (discussed
on page 16 under "history of prior violations") are to b•
followed for violations whi~h warrant a oivil administrative
complaint for the first violation and are repeated .
Failure to Supply N9titication Under 40 CP'R §372.45, certain ·
facilities which sell or· otherwise distribute mixtures or trade
name product• containing· §313 chemicals are required to supply
notification to (i) facilities described in §372.22, or (ii) to
persons who in turn may sell or otherwis41 distribute •uch
mixtures 9r product• to a facility descr ibed in §372.22(b) in
accordance with para9ra~ih S372.45(b). Failure to comply with 40
ctR §372. 45, in whole oz· in part, constitute-a a violation .. A
violation will h• •tail~~re to supply notification• or •incomplete
.o r inaccurate supplia.r r.1otitication."
Failure to M4intain Becc!W Ondar 40 CFR §372.lO, each person
subject to th• reportingr requirements of 40 CFR §372. 30 must
retain records documenti.ng and supportinq the intormation
submitted on each ·r orm Ft report. Addi tlonally, under 40 CFR



                           ' '
                                      7


§372.10, each perso.n subject to the supplier notitication
requirement• ot ~o CFR §372 .45 , must retain certain record•
docu.mentin<J and ,supporting the determination ot each required
notice under that same section. These records must b• kept tor
three years trom the date ot the submission or a report under 40
CFR §372.30 or the date of notification under 40 CFR §372.45.
The records must be maintained at the facility to which the
report applies or at the facility supplying notification.
Failure t o comply with 40 CFR Part 372.la, in whole or in part,
constitutes a violation. Violations will b• a "failure to
maintain records as prescribed at 40 CFR Part 372.lO (a) or (b)",
or a "failure to maintai.n complete records as prescribed at 40
CFR Part 372.10 (a) or Cb)" or "failure to maintain complete
records at the facility .a s prescribed at 40 CFR Part 372 .10 (o) ."

CIVIL JOI>ICIAL lll~ZRRALS
     In exceptional circumstances, EPA, under EPCRA §J25(c), may
rater civil case• t o the United States Department ot Juatic• tor
aaaessment and/or collec·tion ot the penalty in the appropriate
u.s. District court. u.1s. EPA also may include EPCRA count• in
civil complaints charqin•; Respondents with violations ot other
environmental statutes.



     EPCRA does not provide !or criminal sanctions tor violations
ot §313. However, 18 u.s.c. §1001 makes it a. criminal offense to
falsify i~formation subm:itted to th• u.s. Government. Thi• would
specifically apply to, b1Jt not be limited to, EPCRA 5313 r ecords
maintain·e d by a facility that w•r• intentionally generated vith
incorrect or misleading :information. In addition, th• knowing
failure to file an EPCRA §313 report may be prosecuted aa a
concealment prohibited b~i 18 u.s .c. §1001.

              &aS•llIHG A CIVIL ADMIHIS'fllATtVB PBNAt.TY
81JXKAJlY O• 'l"BS ?Slla.LTY ~JLICY MATllIS
     Thi• policy implemaints a system for determining penaltie• in
civil adminiatrative act.ions brou9ht pursuant to §313 ot thCI
Emergency Planning and Cto1lmlunity Ri9ht•to-l<now Act (EPCRA) •
Penaltie• are determined in two sta9ea: (1) determination ot a
"gravity•ba••d penalty," and (2) adjustments to th• qravity-baaed
penalty.
                                      a
     To determine the qravity-based penalty, the followinq
tactor• atf•ct~nq a _violation's gravity are considered:
      o      th• "circumstances" ot the violation
      o      the "extent" ot the violation
     The circumstance levels ot the matrix take into account the
seriousness ot th• violation as it relates to the accuracy and
availability ot the intonnation to the community, to states, and
to tha federal government. Circumstance levels are described on
paqea ll-13.
     Th• extent level ot a violation is based on the quantity ot
each EPCRA §313 chemical manutactured, processed , or otherwise
used by the facility; the size of the tacility based on a
combination of the number of employees at the violatinq facility;
and the groaa sales ot tha violatinq tacility's total corporate
entity . The Aqency will use the number ot employees and the
qrosa sales at the time the civil administrative complaint is
issued in determining the extent level ot a violation.
     To determine the gravity-based penalty, determine both the
circumatance level and the extent level. These taetora are
incorporated into a matrix which establish•• th• appropriate
gravity-based penalty amount. Th• penalty is determined by
calculatinq the penalty for each violation on a per-chemical,
per-facility, per-year basis (see special circumstance• tor per
day penalties on paqe 13).
     once the gravity-based penalty, has been determined, upward
or downward adjustments to the proposed penal t)'· amount may be
made in                                      .
     . consideration Of the following factors:
      o      Voluntary Disclosure
      o      History ot prior violation(•)
      o      Oeliated chemical•
      o      Attitude
      o      Other ractors as Justice May Require
      o      Supplemental Environmental Projects
      o      Ability to Pay
     Th• f ir8t      thr••
                     of these adjustment• may be mad• prior
to isauinq the civil complaint.

lrl'IJl'l' UVJILll
      In th• ta.bl• below, the total corporate entity r•tera to all
sitoa taken toqather own.ad or controll•d by the domestic or
toreiqn parent company. EPA Reqiona have discretion to use those
f iqurea for number of employees and total corporate sale• which




                             ..-· .
                                 9

are readily available. It no intormation is available, Regions
may assume the . higher lavel and adjust it the tacility can
produce doc:waentation demonstrating they belong in a lower extent
level.


     Facilities which m~1nutactura, process or otherwise use ten
time• or more the threshold ot the §313 chemical involved in the
violation Arul meet the total corporate entity sales and number of
employees criteria below:
                                                              LEVEL
     $10 million or mor11 in total corporate entity sale•      A
     and so employees o·z· more.
     $10 million or mor11 in total corporate entity sales      a
     and less than so employees.
     Lesa than $10 million in total corporate entity salea         B
     and 50 employees oi::· more.
     Lesa than $10 million in total corporate entity salea      a
     and less than 50 employees.

     Facilities which manufacture, proceaa or otherwi•• use le••
th&D ten ti••• the threshold ot the 1313 chemical involved -in the
violation and meet the total corporate entity sales and number ot
employee criteria below:
                                                              LEVEL

     $10 million or more1 in total corporate entity sales       B
     and 50 employees oi::· more.
     $10 million or mort1 in total corporate entity sales      C
     and las.. than 50 en:1ployae11.

     Les• than $10 milli.on in total corporate entity sales    c
     and 50 . .ployees or more.
     IA•• than $10 million in total corporate entity sales     C
     and l••• than 50 employee•.
     Oiscus•ion
     EPA believe• that usinq th• a.mount ot §313 chemical involved
in the violation aa the primary tactor in determininq th• extent
level underscore• the overall intent and qoal ot EPCRA f 313 to
make available to the public on an annual ba•is a raaaon&Dle
estimate of the toxic chemical substance11 emitted into their
communitiea trom these i~equlated sources. A necessary component
                                lO

of makinq usetul data available to the public is the supplier
notification requiremen1: ot §Jl3, as a significant amount ot
toxic che-.icala are dist:ributed in mixtures and trade name
products. An additional qoal of §313 is to ensure that
purchasera ot §313 chemjlcals are informed of their potential §313
reporting requirements. The extent levels underscore this qoal
aa well.
      The size of busine!JS is used as a second factor in
determining the approprlate extent level to reflect th• fact that
the deterrent effect of a smaller penalty upon a small company is
lilcely to be equal to ttlat of a larger penalty upon a lari;e
company . Ten times the threshold for distinguishing between
extent levels was chosen because it represents a significant
amount of chemical substance. Thus, th• two factors, the amount
ot §313 chemical involve1d and the size of business, are combined
and used to determine the extent level table .
                                         11

        Gravity-Based Penalty Matrix for Violations that Occurred
        After January 12, 2009 but before or on November 2, 2015

    CIRCUMSTANCE                              EXTENT
       LEVELS
                            A                   B                    C
                          Major           Significant             Minor
         1              $37,500             $24,080              $7,090
         2              $28,330             $18,420              $4,250
         3              $21,250             $14,170              $2,130
         4              $14,170              $8,500              $1,420
         5               $7,090              $4,250                $710
         6               $2,840              $1,850                $290

        Gravity-Based Penalty Matrix for Violations that Occurred
                         after November 2, 2015 1

    CIRCUMSTANCE                              EXTENT
       LEVELS
                            A                  B                   C
                          Major          Significant            Minor
         1              $40,779            $27,730             $8,156
         2              $32,623            $21,205             $4,893
         3              $24,467            $16,312             $2,447
         4              $16,312             $9,787             $1,631
         5               $8,156             $4,893               $816
         6               $3,262             $2,121               $326


CIRCUMSTANCE LEVELS

A penalty is to be assessed for each §313 chemical for each facility. There
are two “per day” penalty assessments; see pages 12 and 13 for further
clarification.

The date used to determine the circumstance level for failure to report in a
timely manner is the date the non-trade secret Form R or Form A is certified
in TRI-MEweb. All violations are “one day” violations unless otherwise
noted.

1This page replaces the previous page 11, 11-A, 11-B, and insert behind 11-B. The
2016 Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment Rule increased EPCRA § 313
statutory maximum penalties from $37,500 to $53,907 pursuant to the Federal Civil
Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvement Act of 2015 inflation adjustment
methodology. Where penalties are assessed on or after January 15, 2017, for
violations that occurred after November 2, 2015 the new statutory maximum penalty
is $54,789. EPA used the 2001 EPCRA § 313 ERP original 2001 penalty matrix (with
its maximum penalty amount of $27,500) and a multiplier of 1.48287 to calculate an
updated penalty matrix with an appropriate inflation adjustment for violations
after November 2, 2015. Note that this modification supersedes application of the
“Amendments to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Civil Penalty Policies to
Account for Inflation.” (Effective August 1, 2016.)
                                   12
LEVEL 1

Failure to rep~rt ih a timely lDan.n er, Cateqory I .

LzyEL 2

Failure to maintain records as prescribed at 40 CFR §372.lO(a) or
(b) •

Failure to supply notification ; per chemical, per year.

LEVEL 3
Data Quality Errors.
Repeated NON violations.

LEVEL 4

Failure to report in a timely manner, category II:      Per Day
tormula applies.

Failure to maintain complete records as prescribed at 40 CFR
§372.lO(a) or (b).


LEVEL 5

Failure to Respond to an NON.
Data Quality Errors whicln are voluntarily disclosed a fter
November 30th ot the yea:r the oriqinal report was due.

Incomplete or inaccurate supplier notification; per chemical, per
year .

LEVEL 6


Data Quality Errors which are voluntarily disclosed on or betore
November 30th ot the year the original report was due.
Revisions which are voluntarily submitted to EPA but are not
reported to th• State within 30 days ot th• date the revis ion is
submitted to EPA.
Failure to maintain reco rds at the facility (40 CFR §372.lO(c)) .



                           /   ,
                                   13


NtTLTI1Lll VI0~7IOH8

     separate penalti'es are to be calculated tor each chemical
for aach facility. If a company has three facilities and fails
to report betore July l of the year fo llowinq the year the report
was due, a penalty is t ro be assessed tor each t'acil i ty and for
each ch.em;ical. As,sW11~n1~ the annual sale• ot the corporate; entity
exceed $10 million doll•~rs, the facility has more than 50
employees, and each facility exceeds the threshold limits by more
than ten tiJZles, the pemi-lty would be $25,0oo X 3,, or $75,QOO. If
each facility manutactu;ced two chemicals, aqain at more th.an ten
times the threshold, th•• penalty would be $25, QOO x J x 2 or
$150~000 •

     . If there is more than one violation. tor the same facility
involving the same chem:lcal, the penalties a-re cumulative. For
example, if a firm repoicts more than ono year after the r,eport~
was due, and the form also contains errors which the firm refused
to correct ilt.fter receiv:ln9 an NON, the penalty is $25, ooo plus.
$15,000. However, since! i t is the same torm involved, and since
the statute imposes a maximum ot $25,000 per violation for each.
day the violation continues, the penalty ·w hich will be assessed
should be th• one day $;is 1 ooo maximum.
PBR DAY PBJIALTllS
       Generally, penal,:iea ot up to $25, 000 per day may b•
assessed if' a facility within the corporate entity has received a
Civil Administrative co1111plaint, which has bee,n resolved, tor
tailing to re'Port under §313 for any two prev1ous reporting
periods. A Civil AdmirdLstrative Complaint is resolved by a
payment{ a. Cons•nt Aqreument and Final Order, or a court OrdGr.
     Penalties of up ' to $25,ooo per day, may also be used tor
those facilities which i=-etuse to submit reports or corrected
information within thir1:.y days attor a Civil Administrative
coinplaint ia re•olvad. such refusal may b• the basis for issuing
a new Civil Administratlve Complaint to addross the days ct
continuing noncompl i ancta after the initial Civil Administrative
Complaint ia reoolved. F:o r example, a respondent may respond to
a civil Adaini•trative complaint by payinq th• tull penalty, yet
not correct th11 violatic)n; in such a s,ituation, a nov Civil
Admirtistrativ• Complain1: should be isaued.
PJ!'la t>AY 70RXULA ~R fAIMTR.I TO UIOR7 Ill A 'l'IXJILY n m a

      Tha follotitinq per day pe nalty calculation formula ia to b•
used only tor violation11 involvinq failure to report on or before
July 1 of the year the Jceport is due and before July l ot the
to llowinq year:
                                    14
Level 4    Penalty +

      ll oC day.s late - llxCJ.evel 1 - Level 4 Penaltyl
                                             365
     For exuple, the p•analty for a facility t..1hich submitted one
Form R report on Octobeir:- 11 of the year the report was due, and
met the criteria for extent level A, would be calculated as
follows:
      $10,000 + Cl02-ll C$1S,OQ0l        ~    $10,000 + $4151 -   $14,151~
                        365



     While there is a $~?5, 000 per day per violation maximum
penalty under EPCRA § 3 2 ~; ,. which outlines EPA' s enforcement
authority for EPCRA §31:!, there are no caps on the total penalty
amount a facility may bu liable for under EPCRA §313.
ADJUST>mln' J'AC'l'OU

     The Agency intends to pursue a policy ot strict liability . in
penalizing a violation; therefore, no reduction is allowed for
culpability. Lack of knowledge do•• not reduce culpability since
the Agency has no intention of encouraging ignorance ot EPCRA and
its requirements and bec:ause the statute only requires tacilities
to report information which is readily available. In tact, it a
violation is knowinq or willful, the Aqency reserves the riqht to
assess per day penaltie11, or take other enforcement acti.on ·as
appropriate. In some. c~tses, the Aqency may determine that the
violation should b• re·t orred to the Oftice ot Criminal
Enforcement.
Voluntary Disclosure
       To be eliqible tor any voluntary disclosure reductions, a
facility must: submit n siqned and written statement of
voluntary disclosure to EPA. and submit complete and siqned
report(s) to t.hair stat41 and EPA's TRI Reporting Center within 30
days, or uub11it completu and siqned Form R report (s) immediately
to their atat• and EPA' n TRI Reporting c.e nter as indicated on the
Form R. In the caae of supplier notification violations, the
tac.i l ity llNllt aUbmit a niqned and written statement ot voluntary
disclosur• to EPA.
       The Aqency will no1: consider a tacillty to be eliqibl• tor
any . voluntary disclosur~• reductions it the company ha• been
notitied ot a scheduled inspection or the inspection ha• begun,
or the tac i 1 i ty has oth•trw ise been contacted by U.S. EPA tor th•
purpose of determininq c:omplianca with EPCRA §313.
                                l5
     This en~orcement reisponse policy establishes two reductions
in penalti•• for voluntary disclosure of violations: the first
reduct ion ia a : t~xed 2st·; the second reduction is capped at 2st
and can ba applied in full or in part accordinq to the extent to
which the facility meets the criteria tor th• sacond 25t
reduction .    All facilities which voluntarily disclose violations
ot §JlJ (except those identified below) are aliqible tor the
first !ixed 25t. Th• voluntary disclosure reductions apply to
the tollowinq violations: failure to report in a timely manner,
catego.r y I and !I: and failure to supply notif'ication.
     In order to obtain the second reduction for voluntary
disclosure a facility must meet the followinq criteria and
explain and certify in \•tritinq how th• facility meets these
criteria :
     o    Th• violation 11/as immediately disclosed within 30 days
          ot discovery by the facility.
     o    The facility h;;i.s undertaken concrete actions to ensure
          that the facility will be in compliance with EPCRA §3.13
          in th• tuture. Such stapa may include but are not
          limited to: c:t'eatinq an environmental compliance
          position and hiring an individual tor that poaition1
          chanqin~ the jc)b description ot an existing po• ition to
          include managihq EPCRA compliance raquirements1 and
          contracting with an environmental compliance consulting
          tirm.
     o    For supplier n<>ti!ication violations, the facility
          provides complnte and accurate supplier notitication to
          each facility <>r person described in §372.45(a) within
          60 days ot notifying EPA of the violation .
     o    The facility dc)eS not have a .. history ot violation"
          (see below) to1: EPCRA §313 for th• two reporting years
          precedinq the calendar year in which the violation is
          disclosed to EPA.

     Thia policy is dasiqned to distinguish 'b etween those
faciliti•• vbich make an· inunediate attempt to comply with §313 aa
soon
not.
     a• noncompliance with §Jl3 is disc:overad and those which do

     This enforcement re&Jponse policy doGS not allow tor
voluntary disclosure adjustments in penalties tor the following
violations because these violations will, in almoet all
circumstances, be discovurad by EPA: tailur• to maintain
records, failure to maint!ain records aceordinq to th• standard in
the regulation, failure t!o submit Form R reports containinq error
corrections or revisions to tha state, and failure to supply
                                16

correction• or revisionu to the state, and failure to supply
notification ~ccordinq to the standard in the requlation. In th•
rare case ~t · a· tac ilit:y identities such violations and
voluntarily discloses t.tLem, EPA Reqional otficea have discrotion
to adj':1st th• penalty ur.1der the "as justice may require"
reduct1on. Consideratic•n of voluntary disclosure for data
qual ity errors is alreadly structured into the circumstance
levels: voluntarily dis.closed data quality errors are assessed
two and three levels low·er than data quality errors which are
discovered by EPA. Therefore no further "voluntary• reduction
is allowed.
HOTB1  Reductions available t or attitude and for voluntary
disclosure ar• mutually exclusive, as both recoqniz• the
facility 's concern with, and actions taken toward, timely
compliance. Therefore, a facility cannot quality tor reductions
in both of these categories .
History ot Prior ViolatiQnA
     Th• penalty matrix is intended to apply to "first
offenders." Where a v io.lator has demonstrated ·a history of
violatinq any section(s) of EPCRA , the penalty should be adjuatad
upward accordin9 to aact:ion· (d) below prior to issuinq the
Administrative civil com1~laint. Th• need tor such an upward
adjustment derives from 1th• violator not havinq been autticiently
motivated to comply by the penalty assessed tor the previous
violation, either becaus•• ot certain factors consciously analyzed
by the fi nll, or because <:>f neqliqence . Another reason tor
penalizinq repeat vioiators more severely than "first offenders"
is the increased entorcetnant resources that are spent on the same
violator.
     The Aqency•a policy is to interpret "prior such violations•
as rafa.r rinq to prior violations of! any provision ot the
Emergency Planninq and Cc>Jnmunity Riqht-tc-Know Act (1986) . The
following rules apply in evaluatinq history ot prior such
violations:
     (a) In ordor to conutitute a prior violation, the prior
violation maat have resul~ted in a final order, either a • a reault
ot an uncontaatad complajLnt, or as a rsmult ot a contested
complaint which is finally resolved aqainat th• violator, except
as discussed below at sec:tion (d). A con•ent aqreement and tinal
order/ consent ordar (CA.FC>/CACO) , or receipt of payment in
response to a administrat:ive civil complaint, are both considered
to b• th• tinal r asolutic>n of th• complaint aqainst th• violator.
Therefore, either a CAFO/CACO, or receipt of payment mad• to th•
u.s. Treasury, can be ust•d aa evidence conatitutinq a prior
violation, reqardlea• ot whether or not a respondent adaits to
the violation.
                                  17



      (b) To be · considered a "prior such violation," th• violation
 muat have occurred within tive years ot th• pr•••nt violation.
 Generally, the date used tor the present violation will be one
 day after July l or the year the Form R report was due tor
 failure to report, data quality errors, recordkeepinq violation•,
 and supplier notification violationa. For oth•r violations, the
 date of the present violation will be th• date the faci lity was
 required to come into compliance; tor exaJDple, tor a "failure to
 respond" violation, the data ot the present violation will be the
 last day ot the 30 day period the tacility had to respond to a
 Notice ot Noncompliance. This tive-year period beqina when the
 prior violation becomes a tinal order. Beyond five years, the
 prior violative conduct becomes too distant to require
 compoundinq of the penalty tor the present violation.
       (c) Generally, comp.a nies with multiple establishments are
 conaidered aa one when determininq history. Thus, it a facility
 i• part of a company tor which another facility within the
 company ha• a "prior such violation," then each facility witbiri
 the company is considered to have a "prior violation." However,
 two companies held by th~ same parent corporation do not
 necessarily attect each other's history it they are in
 substantially ditterent lines ot business, and they are
 substantially independent ot one another in their manaqement, and
 in the functioning ot th~ir Board• ot Directors. Yn th• case of
 wholly- or partly-owned isubsidiariea , the violation history ot a
 parent corporation shall apply to ita subaidiaries and that of
 the subsidiaries to the J?arent corporation.
      (d) For one prior violation, the penalty should b• adjusted
 upward by 25,. If two pi~ior violation• have occurred, the
 penalty should be adjuat•ad upward by 50,. If three or more prior
 violations have occurred., the penalty should be adjusted upward
 by 10~.
      (a) A "prior violation" raters collectively to all the
 violation• which may hav~ been described in one prior
 Administrative Civil ComJ?laint or CAPO. Thua, "prior violation"
 refers to an episode of prior violation, not every violation that
 may have been contained in the first Civil Administrative
 complaint o~ CA.FO/CACO.
. 01li1t1d Chtmicala
       For delisted chemicals, an immediate and tixed reduction ot
  25' can be justified in all cases accordin9 the follovinq policy :
       It the Aqency has d1alistad a chemical by a final Federal
  R1qi1ter Notico, the Aga1~cy may settle ca••• involvinq th•
  deli•t•d chemical under 1terms which provide tor a 25t reduction



                           r /,
                                   18

ot the initial penalty c:alculated for any Section JlJ violation
involvinq tbat- ahemical. Tht reduction would only apply tg
chemicals deli1t11d betot·e or during the pendency ot tht
enforcement action. Thi.s reduction may be made betor• issuinq
the Administrative Civil Complaint. Facilities will not be
allowed to delay settlinq Administrative Civil complaints in
order to determine whether the violative chemical will be
de listed.
Attitude

      This adjustment has1 two components : ( 1) cooperation and
(2) c·o mplianca. An adjuLstment ot up to 15' can be mad• tor each
component:
      (1) Under the tirs•t component, the Agency may reduce the
qravity-based penalty based on the cooperation extended to EPA
throughout the compliance evaluation/enLorcement proce•a or th•
lack thereof. Factors such as degree ot cooperation and
preparedness durinq the inspection, allowinq access to records,
responsiveness and expedtitious provision ot supportinq         ­
documentation requested by EPA durinq or attar th• inspection,
and cooperation and pre;1arednaaa durinq the settlement prooeaa.
     ( 2} Under the sacc:•nd compon•nt, th• A9ency may reduce the
gravity-based penalty ir.L consideration of the tacility•s good
faith efforts to comply with EPCRA, and th• speed and
completeness with which it comes into compliance.
     HOT111 See note on page 16 reqardinq th• mutual exclusion of
reductions for attitude reduction ~nd volunta·ry disclosure .
Other . Factors as Justice1 May Beau ire
     In addition to the factors outlined above, the Aqency will
consider other issues tl'.lat miqht arise, on a casa•by-casa basis,
and at Reqional discratton, which should ):)e considered in
assessing penalties. Tboae factors which are relevant to EPCRA
§313 violationa include but are not limited to :     new ownership
tor history ot prior violations, ''siqniticant•minor" borderline
violationa, and lack of control over the violation. For example,
occasionally a violation, while of siqnificant extant, will be so
close to th• borderline saparatin9 minor and significant
violation• or so close t:o the borderline aeparating noncompliance
trom compliance, that tl1• penalty may seem disproportionately
hiqh. In th••• situatic)ns, an additional reduction ot up to 25'
ott the. gravity-based peanalty may be allow•d. U•• of this
reduction i• expected tc> be rare and th• circwnatanc•• justifying
its use muat ba thoroughly docwnented in th• caae tile.
'   .

                                              19

        Settlement. Wi1;b   Conditi<2DS   CSWC)

             suppl...ntal Environmental Projects (SEPs);
             circumstances may arise where a violator will otter to make
        expendi~ures  for environmentally benetieial purposes above and
        beyond those required c~r law in liau ot payinq the full penalty.
        The Aqency, in penalty actions in the U.S. District courts under
        the Clean Air Act and CJLean Water Acts, and in administrative
        penalty actions under tt1e Toxic Substances control Act, has
        determined that crediting such expenditures ia consistent with
        the purpose ,o f civil penalty asaaaament. Although civil
        penalties under EPCRA f~llJ are adminiatratively assessed, the
        same rational e applies. This adjustment, which constitutes a
        credit aqainst the actuiLl penalty amount, will normally be
        discussed only in the course ot settlement negotiations.
             Other settlements ~lith _ Conditions may be considered by EPA
        Reqional ottices as appropriate.
             Before th• proposed credit amounts can be incorporated into
        a settlement, the compli1inant must assure himself/herself that
        the company ha• met th• condition• as set forth in current or
        other proqram specific policy quidanca. The settlement aqreement
        incorporatinq a penalty adjuatment tor an SEP or any other swc
        should make clear what t~he actual penalty as•easment is, after
        which th• terms of the reduction should be clearly spelled . out in
        detail in the CAFO/CACO. A cash penalty must always be collected
        from the violator reqardllesa ot the SEP• or SWCs undertaken by
        the company. Finally, i.n accordance with Agency-wide settlement
        policy quidelines, the f~inal penalty assessment contained in the
        CACO/CAFO must not bo le1sa than the economic benefit gained by
        the violator trom nonco111pliance.

        Ability to Pay
             Normally, EPA will not seek a civil penalty that exceeds the
        violator•• Ability to p~1y. Th• Agency will assume that the
        respond•nt ha• the al:lill.ty to pay at , th• time the complaint is
        issued if information cc>ncarning the alleged violator's ability
        to pay ia not readily a'l'aila.ble. Any alleged violator can raise
        the is•u• of it• ability to pay in its answer to the civil
        complaint, or durinq thG course ot settlement neqotiation•.
             It an alleged violmtor raise• the inability to pay aa a ·
        detenoe in its answer, or in tho cour•• ot settlement
        neqotiationa, it shall present sufficient dooumantation to permit
        tha Agency to establish such inability. Appropriate documents
        will include the following, as the Aqeney may request, and will
        be presented in th• f on1 used by th• respondent in it• ordinary
        course of business:


                                    "
 I'




.'
                                        20
           l,    Tax returns
           2.    Balance sheets
           3.    Income -stateme:nts
           4.    Statements . ot 1cha.n9es in tinancial position
           s.    stateme nts ot ioperations
           6.    Retained earniinqs statements
           7'.   Loan applicati1:::ms, tinancinq and security agreements
           s.    Annual and qua;r:terly reports to shareholders and the
                 SEC, including 10 K reports
           9,    Business servi•::es reports, such as Compusat, Dun and
                 Bradstreet, or Value Line.
           10.   Executive salait:'ias, bonuses, and benefits packages.
           such records are to be provided to th• Agency at the
      respondent's expense and must conform to qenerally recognized
      accounting procedures. ~rhe Agency reserves th• riqht to request,
      obtain, and review all UJ:'lderlyinq and supporting financial
      documents tha:t form the l:>asis ot these records to verity their
      accuracy. tt the alleqe<i violator faila to provide th• necessary
      information, and the int"rmation is not readily available trom
      other sources, then the violator will b• presWDed to be able to
      pay.


           Any r<.>4uction• in pcanaltia• are to ti• ••4• in aceorc!a.nc•
      vitb tbi• penalty policy.. In preparinq Consent Agreements,
      Region• mwt.t require a s11:atement signed by the company which
      cartities that it has co1nplied with all EPCRA requirements, and
      specifically §313 requir•ements, at all fa:eilities under their
      control.
            My violations repolcted by th• company or facility in the
      context of settlement aria to l:>a treated as self-confaased
      violations or traatad as a failure to report in a timely manner
      it th• company has not s1.lbmitted the report. If a Reqion wishes
      to enter into a Settlema1rit Agreement for th• facility/company to
      audit its tacility/compa111y, than th• Consent Agreement and Final
      Ord.er may contain this a11reement. A Reqion may choose to agree
      to assesa prior stipulat•ad penalties for the viol~tions found
      durinq th• cmapliance audit, or may cboosa to assasa any such
      viQlatioru1 in accordance with this entorc•m•nt policy.
      R•duction• for complianc1a audits cannot exceed th• after-tax
      value .o f th• compliance 1audit. Finally, aa stated above, a cash
      penalty must always be c1oll.ected trom th• violator reqardl•s• of
      th• SEPs or swcs undert.a '.k en by the company.




                                 '/
.
                                      21


                  AKmrDKBll'l' .ror lttl Reportin9 Year only

         oue to the unusual circumstances in tinalizinq and
    distributinq the revised. Form R ror use beqinninq with calendar
    year 1991 report.s (reports due on July l, 1992), the followinq
    amendment to the Enforcement Response Policy is issued:

    Penalty A••e•••ent .t or J'•ilure to Report in a 'l'iaely Manner

         one element of the Per Day Penalty Formula on paqe 14 is the
    number ot days late a facility submits its Form R reports.  For
    the 1991 reportinq year only, th• number ot days late will be
    calculated beqinninq on September 2, 1992. Thus, if a facility
    submits it• Form R report on September 15, 1992, the number ot
    days late should be calculated a• 14.
                    AMENDMENT FOR REPORTS DirE.lITLY 1 1996


E~nalt:y Assessment for Failure Ip Report in a Tixncl}'. Manner


      . On page 12, ooe element of th1~ Per Day Penalty Formula is the number of days 1ate a
facility submits its Form R reports. For th~ 1995 rr:porting yea.t only, the number of days late
will be calculated beg.inning on Augus:t 2, 1996. Thus, if a. facility submits its Form R report
on August 15, 1996, the number of diLys late should be calculared a,S 14. The one exception to
this amendment will be Aerosol Forms of Hydrochloric Acid, which shquld be calculated
beginning on August 16, 1996.




                                                                                             TOTAL P. 214
             ALTERN'ATE THRESHOLD EXEMPTION ERP AMENDMENT
                                         December 6, 1996
VIOLATION
Failure to File annual certification in a tir.nely manner ~ Cirounstance Level l
                                                                                               -·
VIOLATION
Filing an annual certification in lieu of tb1e Form R ,when facility did not qualify for the
exemption Circumstance Level 3
            ¥




VIOLATION
Rccordkecpi.ng
       a)       Failure to maintain records1 as prescribed at 40 CFR §372. lO(d).
                Circumstance Level 2

       b)       Failure to maintain comple:tc records as prescribed at 40 CFR §372. lO(d)
                Cirwmsta.nce Level 4
          lmerim Data Quality Am endment to the EPCRA Secti on 313
                    Enforcement Response Pol icy (ERP)


         Significant Data Quality Errors are errors which significantly compromise the uti lity of
the data submitted to EPA and states on Ute Fonn R or the Fonn A. Significant Data Quality
Errors are subject to an administrative complaint nnd should be nssessed as a circumstance level
2 vio lation in the EPCRA Section 313 ERP currently in effect. Generally, en-ors which are not
readily detected during EPA.'s data entry will ttigger a Civil Ad111i nis1rative Complaint. EPA
will generally a ssess one data quality violation per reporting form according to th 1·~ following
circumstances:

               •       Significant Release Estimation Errors-Non PBT Ch~mical:[,: This
                       circumstance includes failing to make a reasonable estimate of the quantity
                       of each toxic chemical entering each environmental medium., including
                       transfers off-site. A signi fi cant data quality violation may resull either by ·
                       miscalculation, failure to use all readily a~ilable information (such as
                       monitoring data or emission factors), or failure to make a reasonable
                       estimate. The magnitude of error generally sufficient to issue a Civil
                       Administrative Complaint for chemicals with reporling thresholds of
                       25,000 pounds for manufacturing and processing, and I 0,000 pounds for
                       otherwise use, is expressed as follows:

                       ./      Tbe difference between reported releases or transfers a.'1d corrected
                               releases and transfers is 2500 pounds or less, and the difference
                               berween the corrected amount and tire actual amount reported
                               reflects greater than a 50% increase of the reported amount. 2

                               Example: Facility X reports 2500 pounds of chemical Y releases to
                               air in its Form R. EPA discovers that Facility X sh1mld have
                               reported 4900 pounds ofchemical Y releases to air. Facility X
                               under reported chemical Y by 2400 pounds. This instance of under
                               reporting,. 2400 pounds, is less than 2500 pounds a11d represents


   1
      If an error is made in determining a fac1 liry's toxic chemical threshold which results in 1he
facility erroneously concluding that a Fann R repon for that chem ical is not requi red. thjs is not
a Significant Data Quality Error, but a Failure to Report 10 a Timely Manner. This includes
facil ities which erroneously fi le a Form A in lieu of a Fann R.
   2 ln order to calculate the percentage increase from the reported amount and tht: corrected

amount, use the following equation: (!oral of corrected releases less rozal reported releases)..,..
reported releases equals percentage of error.
           96% of the actual amoum reported, 2500 pounds. Therefore,
           Facjlity X may be subject to a Civi l Administrative Complaint for
           ..Failing to Submit an Accurate and Complete Report," due to
           "Significant Dota Quality Errors."

    ./     The difference betwec::n reported releases and transfers and
           con-ectec! releases and transfers is greater than 2500 pounds but
           less than 20,000 ponnds, and the difference bef'Neen the corrected
           amount and the actu.a/ amoum reported rcOects greater than a 25%
           increase of the reported amount.

           Example: Facility X reports 12,000 pounds of chemical Y releases
           to air in its Fonn R. EPA discovers that Facility X should have
           reported 17,000 pounds of chemical Y releases to air. Facility X
           under reported chemical Y by 5,000 pounds. This instance of
           Linder reporting, 5000 pounds, is greater than 2500 pounds, but
           less than 20,000 pounds and represents 42% of the actual amount
           reported. Therefore, Facility X may be.subject to a Civil
           Administrative Complaint for "Failing to Submit an Accurate and
           Complete Report," due to "S ignificant Data Quality Errors."

    ./     The difference between reported releases and transfors, and
           corrected releases and transfers is greater than or equal to 20,000
           pounds, and the difference be1ween the COffected amount and the
           actual amount reported reflects greater than or equ~I to a 15%
           increase of the reported amount.

           Example : Facility X reports 125,000 pounds of chemical Y
           releases to land in its Fom1 R. BP A discovers tha1 Facility X
           should have reported 155,000 pounds of chemical Y releases tQ
           land. Fadlity X under reported chemical Y by 30,000 pounds.
           This instance of under reporting, 30, 000 pounds is greater than
           20,000 pounds and represents 24% of the actual amount reporzed,
           J25,000pounds. Therefore, Faci lity X may be subject to a Civil
           Admjnisitrative Complaint for "Failing lo Submit an Accurate and
           Complete Report," due to "Significant Data Quality Errors."

•   Si1mificant Errors Jdentifving Chemical Use: Failure to ide:uify all
    appropriate categories of chemical use, resulting in error(s) in estimates of
    release or off-site transfers.

•   Significant Erroirs Reporting Treatment or Disposal Data: Failure to
    identify for each waste stream the waste treatment or disposal methods

                               2
                       employed, aud an estimate of the treatment efficiency typically achieved
                       by such methods for that waste stream.

                •      Patt em of Minor Errors~ A facility's annual reporting consistently
                       demonstrates a p;attem of errors or omissions, and 1}1c facil ity has received
                       a NON for twci or more reporting years for the same or similar enors or
                       omissions.

        This Po licy sets forth factors for consideration that will guide the Agency in its proposed
penalty calcu'Jations for civil ad1ninistra.tive violations. It states the Agenpy1s views as to the
proper allocatio o or its enforcement resources. The :Policy is not final agency action and is
intended as g1.u dance. This Policy is not intended, nor can it be relied upon, to. create any rights
enforceable by ru1y party in litigation with the-United States, EPA may decide to follow
guidance provided in this document or to act at variance wjth it based on its analysis of the
specific facts presented" This Policy mi:ty be revised without public notice to refleict changes in
EPA's approach to calculaHng proposed civil administrative penaJties, or to clarify and ·update
text




                        cting Director                     DatJ
                     esticides Enforcement Division




                                                  3
